not_for_deploy/docs/developer/javascript.rst, before:

.. _javascript:

==================================================
JavaScript --- Libraries and guidelines/code style
==================================================

Most of our UIs are developed in JavaScript using the ExtJS4 framework from Secha (http://sencha.com).

#################################################
Libraries
#################################################
At the time of writing, we only use ExtJS4. We are open to including more libraries, but we have not
had the need yet.


##################################################
Guidelines and code style
##################################################

Indent
    4 spaces
Naming
    Real meaningful names like::

        var age = 10;
        var username_to_name_map = {peterpan: 'Peter', wendy: 'Wendy'};

    NOT::

        var a = 10;
        var u = {peterpan: 'Peter', wendy: 'Wendy'};
        var usrmap = {peterpan: 'Peter', wendy: 'Wendy'};

Private methods and functions
    Same format as semi-private python methods/functions (prefix by ``_``)::

        _my_private_method: function() {
            return null;
        }

Code format
    Should pass without any errors from JSHint (see :ref:`jshint`).
Code layout
    The ExtJS app layout. See the ``devilry_subjectadmin`` app and the ExtJS4 docs.
Documentation
    Use the JSDuck format (https://github.com/senchalabs/jsduck). Note that you do not have to
    document every single function, but you should at least document:

    - Functions, methods and variables used outside its context (I.E.: you do not have to
      document view-functions that is only used by its controller, but you have to document it
      of multiple controllers use it).
    - Properties and config parameters for ExtJS classes.
    - Events for ExtJS classes, especially if they are used outside their controller.
File naming
    Name controllers by what the control (E.g: ``controller/period/PeriodController.js``), and the
    views after their purpose (E.g.: ``view/period/PeriodOverview.js``). Try to use unique names
    instead of generic names like ``Overview.js``. To see why, try to find (quick open) a file with
    tens of matches in an IDE like PyCharm or Eclipse that only search for file names, not for
    folder names (hint: it is not quick to open such files). We learned this when developing
    ``devilry_subjectadmin`` with controllers and views named ``Overview.js``.



.. _jshint:

####################################################
JSHint
####################################################

For info about JSHint, see http://www.jshint.com/.


Install
=======

Install NodeJS and Node Package Manager (part of NodeJS):

- Ubuntu: ``sudo apt-get install nodejs npm``
- OSX with homebrew: ``brew install npm``
- Others, see: http://nodejs.org/

Install JSHint in ``/usr/local`` on most nix systems, like Linux and OSX::

    $ sudo npm install jshint -g



Usage
=====
Simply point JSHint at a directory::

    $ jshint src/devilry_subjectadmin/devilry_subjectadmin/static/devilry_subjectadmin/app/

The defaults are sane (unlike JSLint), so you should not need to supply any options.



############################################
Building the ExtJS javascript apps
############################################

.. note::
    This is only needed if you have made changes to javascript sources, or if you are making
    your own ExtJS app.


Building
========

We use webpack for building javascript. Go into the static directory of the app,
where package.json and webpack.develop.js is, and run ``npm run jsbuild`` to build
for development, and ``npm run jsbuild-production`` to build for production. If this
is the first time you build javascript for the app, you must run ``npm install`` first.

Example::

    $ cd devilry/devilry_subjectadmin/static/devilry_subjectadmin
    $ npm install
    $ npm run jsbuild

During development, you should use::

    $ npm run jsbuild-watch

When the code is stable, you should build for production with::

    $ npm run jsbuild-production

and commit the changes to production.js and production.js.map


Testing a production build
==========================
TODO


#################################################
Update old sencha tools app to build with Webpack
#################################################

Create an empty ``entry.js`` file in the ``app/`` directory, and copy in the
output from::

    $ python manage.py make_require_statements_from_jsb3 <appname> devilry/<appname>/static/<appname>/app.jsb3
    $ ... E.g.: ...
    $ python manage.py make_require_statements_from_jsb3 devilry_nodeadmin devilry/devilry_nodeadmin/static/devilry_nodeadmin/app.jsb3

into the file.

Copy the ``webpack.develop.config.js`` and ``webpack.production.config.js`` files from
``devilry/devilry_nodeadmin/static/devilry_nodeadmin`` into the app. Update the
``package.json`` file to contain the weback requirements and scripts from
``devilry/devilry_nodeadmin/static/devilry_nodeadmin/package.json``


You should now be able to follow the building guide above.

Commit message:

extjsextras: Update the jsb3 to webpack management script to use extjs
sources instead of app-all.

not_for_deploy/docs/developer/javascript.rst, after:

.. _javascript:

==================================================
JavaScript --- Libraries and guidelines/code style
==================================================

Most of our UIs are developed in JavaScript using the ExtJS4 framework from Secha (http://sencha.com).

#################################################
Libraries
#################################################
At the time of writing, we only use ExtJS4. We are open to including more libraries, but we have not
had the need yet.


##################################################
Guidelines and code style
##################################################

Indent
    4 spaces
Naming
    Real meaningful names like::

        var age = 10;
        var username_to_name_map = {peterpan: 'Peter', wendy: 'Wendy'};

    NOT::

        var a = 10;
        var u = {peterpan: 'Peter', wendy: 'Wendy'};
        var usrmap = {peterpan: 'Peter', wendy: 'Wendy'};

Private methods and functions
    Same format as semi-private python methods/functions (prefix by ``_``)::

        _my_private_method: function() {
            return null;
        }

Code format
    Should pass without any errors from JSHint (see :ref:`jshint`).
Code layout
    The ExtJS app layout. See the ``devilry_subjectadmin`` app and the ExtJS4 docs.
Documentation
    Use the JSDuck format (https://github.com/senchalabs/jsduck). Note that you do not have to
    document every single function, but you should at least document:

    - Functions, methods and variables used outside its context (I.E.: you do not have to
      document view-functions that is only used by its controller, but you have to document it
      of multiple controllers use it).
    - Properties and config parameters for ExtJS classes.
    - Events for ExtJS classes, especially if they are used outside their controller.
File naming
    Name controllers by what the control (E.g: ``controller/period/PeriodController.js``), and the
    views after their purpose (E.g.: ``view/period/PeriodOverview.js``). Try to use unique names
    instead of generic names like ``Overview.js``. To see why, try to find (quick open) a file with
    tens of matches in an IDE like PyCharm or Eclipse that only search for file names, not for
    folder names (hint: it is not quick to open such files). We learned this when developing
    ``devilry_subjectadmin`` with controllers and views named ``Overview.js``.



.. _jshint:

####################################################
JSHint
####################################################

For info about JSHint, see http://www.jshint.com/.


Install
=======

Install NodeJS and Node Package Manager (part of NodeJS):

- Ubuntu: ``sudo apt-get install nodejs npm``
- OSX with homebrew: ``brew install npm``
- Others, see: http://nodejs.org/

Install JSHint in ``/usr/local`` on most nix systems, like Linux and OSX::

    $ sudo npm install jshint -g



Usage
=====
Simply point JSHint at a directory::

    $ jshint src/devilry_subjectadmin/devilry_subjectadmin/static/devilry_subjectadmin/app/

The defaults are sane (unlike JSLint), so you should not need to supply any options.



############################################
Building the ExtJS javascript apps
############################################

.. note::
    This is only needed if you have made changes to javascript sources, or if you are making
    your own ExtJS app.


Building
========

We use webpack for building javascript. Go into the static directory of the app,
where package.json and webpack.develop.js is, and run ``npm run jsbuild`` to build
for development, and ``npm run jsbuild-production`` to build for production. If this
is the first time you build javascript for the app, you must run ``npm install`` first.

Example::

    $ cd devilry/devilry_subjectadmin/static/devilry_subjectadmin
    $ npm install
    $ npm run jsbuild

During development, you should use::

    $ npm run jsbuild-watch

When the code is stable, you should build for production with::

    $ npm run jsbuild-production

and commit the changes to production.js and production.js.map


Testing a production build
==========================
Change the ``EXTJS4_DEBUG`` setting to ``False`` in ``devilry/project/develop/settings/develop.py``.
This should make all the javascript views serve ``production.js`` instead of ``debug.js``.


#################################################
Update old sencha tools app to build with Webpack
#################################################

Run the following management command::

    $ python manage.py make_require_statements_from_jsb3 <appname> devilry/<appname>/static/<appname>/app.jsb3
    $ ... E.g.: ...
    $ python manage.py make_require_statements_from_jsb3 devilry_nodeadmin devilry/devilry_nodeadmin/static/devilry_nodeadmin/app.jsb3

This will create an ``entry.js`` file with ``require`` statements for all the required
files extracted from the ``app.jsb3`` file.

Copy the ``webpack.develop.config.js`` and ``webpack.production.config.js`` files from
``devilry/devilry_nodeadmin/static/devilry_nodeadmin`` into the app. Update the
``package.json`` file to contain the weback requirements and scripts from
``devilry/devilry_nodeadmin/static/devilry_nodeadmin/package.json``

You should now be able to follow the building guide above. You should now run both
``npm run jsbuild`` and ``npm run jsbuild-production``, and commit the
generated ``debug.js``, ``production.js`` and ``production.js.map``.

The last thing you need to do is to make the view that serves the javascript
to inherit from ``devilry.devilry_extjsextras.views.DevilryExtjs4AppView`` instead
of from ``Extjs4AppView``. You should not need to make any other changes, just
switch the superclass of the view.

If the javascript builds, and you have changed the superclass of the view,
you should now be able to test the code in your browser. Make sure to
check the network tab in chrome developer tools to ensure that the
view serves:

- ``debug.js`` instead of ``app.js`` with the ``EXTJS4_DEBUG`` setting set to ``True``.
- ``production.js` instead of ``app-all.js``  with the ``EXTJS4_DEBUG`` setting set to ``False``.

When you have verified that both development and production builds work, you can remove:

- ``app-all.js``
- ``app.jsb3``
- ``all-classes.js``

(they are all replaced by webpack + entry.js).
