not_for_deploy/docs/user/admin/assignment/admin_create_assignment.rst, before:

.. _admin_create_assignment:

=========================
Creating a new assignment
=========================
Creating a new assignment is a pretty simple process. Clicking the `Create new assignment`-link will take you to the
page where you actually create the assignment.

.. image:: images/admin-create-assignment-link.png


The create assignment page has a few required fields that's needs to be set before you can create the assignment. Simply
give the assignment a name and a first deadline. You have a lot of options for tweaking the assignment after it has
been created. We'll create a simple assignment called `Assignment 33` with deadline set to November 21, 2018 11:40 am
by using the `Select a date/time`. You can also use one of the suggested deadlines.

.. image:: images/admin-create-assignment-page.png


.. _defaults_new_assignment:

Defaults for a new assignment
#############################
The following are configured as a default:
 - All active students in the course in the semester are added to the assignment
 - All students added to the semester are organized in a project group
 - No examiners are connected with a student or group
 - The new assignment will be published 6 hours after creation
 - Grading is passed or failed
 - Anonymization is off
 - Deadline handling is soft
 - No students marked as passed assignment previous semester

To change the default configurations, see :ref:`admin_assignment`

Commit message:

not_for_deploy: Update "Create assignment"-docs

not_for_deploy/docs/user/admin/assignment/admin_create_assignment.rst, after:

.. _admin_create_assignment:

=========================
Creating a new assignment
=========================
Creating a new assignment is a pretty simple process. Clicking the `Create new assignment`-link will take you to the
page where you actually create the assignment.

.. image:: images/admin-create-assignment-link.png


The create assignment page has a few required fields that's needs to be set before you can create the assignment. Simply
give the assignment a name and a first deadline. You have a lot of options for tweaking the assignment after it has
been created. We'll create a simple assignment called `Assignment 33` with deadline set to November 21, 2018 11:40 am
by using the `Select a date/time`. You can also use one of the suggested deadlines.

.. image:: images/admin-create-assignment-page.png


Adding students to the new assignment
#####################################

We provide a few shortcuts for adding students to the assignment. You can add all students on the semester,
no students or select an assignment you would like copy students from.

.. image:: images/admin-create-assignment-page-import-students.png


From each of the previous assignments, you have two options:

 - **Copy all students** will copy all students from the selected assignment, and keep the projectgroup and
   examiner setup.
 - **Copy students with passing grade** will copy all students from the selected assignment with a passing grade, and
   keep the projectgroup and examiner setup.


.. _defaults_new_assignment:

Defaults for a new assignment
#############################
The following are configured as a default:
 - The new assignment will be published 6 hours after creation
 - Grading is passed or failed
 - Anonymization is off
 - Deadline handling is soft
 - No students marked as passed assignment previous semester

To change the default configurations, see :ref:`admin_assignment`
