.. _vagrant:

=================================
Test Devilry locally with Vagrant
=================================

You can deploy a complete Devilry demo in a local VirtualBox machine
with just a couple of commands.


Install VirtualBox and Vagrant
==============================
See `the Vagrant website <http://www.vagrantup.com/>`_. The getting started
guide explains about VirtualBox and where to download it.


Get the sources
===============
Clone the sources for ``devilry-deploy``. You find them at our `GitHub project
page <https://github.com/devilry/devilry-deploy>`_


Create a vagrant box
====================
::

  $ cd vagrant/demoserver/
  $ vagrant up

When the box is up, you can visit Devilry at http://localhost:9090. Login
with one of::

- ``thor`` (student, examiner and courseadmin) - Since the current release is focused on the subject admin UI, this is probably the user you want to be using.
- ``dewey`` (student) - Use this instead of thor if you really want to test the student UI.
- ``donald`` (examiner)
- ``grandma`` (superuser)

or go to http://localhost:9090/devilry_sandbox/createsubject-intro.


Load a dump
===========
To load a postgresql dump instead of setting up the demodb, add
``"recipe[django_postgresql::load_dump]"`` to ``chef/roles/demoserver.json``,
right after ``django_postgresql``. I.E::

    ...
    "recipe[django_postgresql]",
    "recipe[django_postgresql::load_dump]",
    "recipe[devilryprodenv]",
    ...

To avoid that the loaded database dump is poluted by autogenerated data, you
must also remove ``recipe[devilry_minimal_autodb]"`` and/or
``"recipe[devilrydemo]"``.

The database must be placed in ``dbdump.postgres.sql`` in the same directory
as ``Vagrantfile`` (I.E.: It should be available as
``/vagrant/dbdump.postgres.sql`` to the Vagrant VM).


.. note:: Does your database dumps create a database?

    The ``load_dump`` recipe creates a database for you, so please
    remove/comment out any create database and change database owner lines in
    your dump. They look like this::

        CREATE DATABASE devilry_prod WITH TEMPLATE = template0 ENCODING = 'UTF8' LC_COLLATE = 'C' LC_CTYPE = 'nb_NO.UTF8';

        ALTER DATABASE devilry_prod OWNER TO devilry;



Tips
====

Take a Database dump
--------------------
::

    $ vagrant ssh
    $ sudo -u postgres pg_dump djangodb > /vagrant/mydump.sql

NOTE: You should write the dump to ``dbdump.postgres.sql`` if you want to
restore/load it as described above.


Tired of waiting?
-----------------
Re-provisioning a lot, and tired of waiting for ``dev_autodb``? Edit
``chef/roles/demoserver.json`` and change ``recipe[devilrydemo]`` to
``recipe[devilry_minimal_autodb]``. ``devilry_minimal_autodb`` runs
``dev_autodb --no-groups``, which means that the testdatabase will not have any
students/groups registered on the assignments. Just make sure you do not commit
this change. You may also consider loading a dump as described above.



.. _vagrant_test_trix:

Test Trix with Vagrant
======================
To deploy the devilry-subproject `Trix <https://github.com/devilry/trix>`_,
follow the instructions above, but use ``vagrant/trixtest/`` instead of
``vagrant/demoserver/``. Trixtest runs on http://localhost:9091, so you can safely run both
``devilrydemo`` and ``trixtest`` at the same time.

The JSON config file for the role used by the Trix vagrant config is
``chef/roles/trixtest.json``.

.. seealso:: :doc:`trix`.
