.. _migrationguide_1.1_to_1.2.1:

===========================
Migrating from 1.1 to 1.2.1
===========================

.. seealso:: :devilrydoc:`Releasenotes <releasenotes-1.2.1.html>`


Stop Devilry
###############################
Stop any running Devilry-server.


Backup database and files
###############################
I repeat. BACKUP. YOUR. DATABASE. AND. FILES.


Dump your current database schema
#################################
We will use this for database migration later, so take good care of it::

    $ bin/django_production.py sqlall core > ~/devilry-database-1.1.sql


Setup Devilry using the new deployment pattern
##############################################
We are in the process of making Devilry far more sysadmin-friendly. A separate
documentation project is part of that. Another part is a deployment pattern
inspired heavily by Plone.

The only thing you should take with you from ``1.1`` to ``1.2.1`` is:

- The database.
- The deliverystore (files uploaded by students).
- Some of the settings (database, email, ...)

To achieve this, you should follow the :doc:`Build Devilry guide </deploy>`,
but ignore the the following sections in favor of alternatives from this guide:

- **Configure Devilry** - See `Migrate the settings`_ below.
- **Create the database** - See `Migrate the database`_ below.


Migrate the settings
====================
Use the suggested starting point for ``devilry_prod_settings.py``, and copy in
the values you used previously for each setting.


Migrate the database
====================
Dump the new database schema::

    $ cd devilrybuild/
    $ bin/django.py sqlall core > ~/devilry-database-1.2.1.sql

Let Devilry create any new database tables (this creates any new tables, but
does not change existing tables)::

    $ bin/django.py syncdb

Migrate the new and changed database fields manually by diffing
``~/devilry-database-1.1.sql`` and ``~/devilry-database-1.2.1.sql``.


Post update actions
###################

Provide help for your users
==============================
The new Devilry subjectadmin UI expects you to use the Help-links app
introduced in 1.1 to provide guides for them to get started. It has two
sections on the dashboard:

- Interractive guides --- Built-in guides that you can not configure.
- More guides and help --- Click your username in the header, and see under
  the Help-heading.

This means that you will get frustrated users unless you add Help-links.
Login as a superuser and choose the superuser role on the frontpage to go to
the admin-panel where you can edit help-links. We suggest that you add the
following Help-links for all roles:

  https://devilry-userdoc.readthedocs.org/ --- Official Devilry user documentation

You should also add any other guides that can make Devilry more user-friendly for
your users. The most important such local guide is most likely an overview of
how Devilry intergrates itself with your environment (where do users come
from, and how are the assigned roles).
