===============================
Migrating from 1.2.1 to 1.2.1.1
===============================


Major changes
#############
``1.2.1.1`` introduces Solr search and the Celery Task queue and periodic task
scheduler to Devilry. Most of the setup is handled by our buildout recipes.

Solr requires java 1.5 or later, GCJ does not work.


Install RabbitMQ
################
Follow the guides at their website: http://www.rabbitmq.com/download.html

Refer to the RabbitMQ docs for regular configuration, like logging and
database-file location. The defaults are usable.

Configure RabbitMQ for Devilry
==============================
Start the RabbitMQ server.

RabbitMQ creates a default admin user named ``guest`` with password ``guest``.
Remove the guest user, and create a new admin user (use another password than
``secret``)::

    $ rabbitmqctl delete_user guest
    $ rabbitmqctl add_user admin secret
    $ rabbitmqctl set_user_tags admin administrator
    $ rabbitmqctl set_permissions admin ".*" ".*" ".*"

Setup a vhost for Devilry with a username and password (use another password
than ``secret``)::

    $ rabbitmqctl add_user devilry secret
    $ rabbitmqctl add_vhost devilryhost
    $ rabbitmqctl set_permissions -p devilryhost devilry ".*" ".*" ".*"



Add RabbitMQ settings to Devilry
################################
Add the following to ``/etc/devilry_prod_settings.py`` (change ``secret`` to
match your password)::

    $ BROKER_URL = 'amqp://devilry:secret@localhost:5672/devilryhost'



Stop Devilry
###############################
Stop all supervisord processes using::

    $ bin/supervisorctl stop all

Then stop supervisord using your init-script, or by killing it with pid.


Backup database and files
###############################
BACKUP. YOUR. DATABASE. AND. FILES.


Update devilry
##############
Update to ``v1.2.1.1`` using the instructions in the :ref:`update guide <update>`, but skip step 4 (start Devilry).


Autocreate the new database tables for Celery
#############################################
This command should be very safe, becuase it only creates new tables, and
refuses to touch existing tables::

    $ bin/django.py syncdb


Start Devilry
#############
Use your init script to start Supervisord, or restart supervisord with
``bin/supervisord`` as explained in the getting started guide.


Build the Solr search index
###########################
We automatically update the search index whenever new content is added, but we
have to index all the existing content::

    $ bin/django.py rebuild_index --noinput

Search will not work while this is running, but everything else will.


.. warning::
    The current supervisor setup does not stop the Solr search server completely. You
    have to manually kill solr until we develop a fix. The solr command will look something
    like this in the ``ps -ef`` listing::

        /usr/bin/java -Djava.util.logging.config.file=/path/to/devilry-deploy/buildout/parts/solr/logging.properties
        -Dsolr.solr.home=/path/to/devilry-deploy/buildout/var/solr/home
        -Dsolr.data.dir=/path/to/devilry-deploy/buildout/var/solr/data -jar start.jar
