.. _version1.3.1:

==============================
Migrating from 1.3 to 1.3.1
==============================


Changes
#############
- Initial South database migration setup. Makes no changes to our database
  tables, but it adds tables for South migration history.
- Increased the timeout of gunicorn from 30 to 180 sec. This should avoid
  timeouts on huge courses for really heavy operations like manually adding all
  students.
- Fixed:
    - https://github.com/devilry/devilry-django/issues/437
    - https://github.com/devilry/devilry-django/issues/444
    - https://github.com/devilry/devilry-django/issues/447

.. seealso:: http://devilry.readthedocs.org/en/latest/releasenotes-1.3.1.html


Backup database and files
###############################
BACKUP. YOUR. DATABASE. AND. FILES.


Update devilry
##############


1 --- Remove the Python Egg cache
=================================
For the fix to `#444 <https://github.com/devilry/devilry-django/issues/444>`_
to work, you have to clear the Python Egg cache. This should not cause any
problems, but we will take a backup to be on the safe side.

1. Locate your buildout cache. If you followed the install guide, it should be
   in ``/path/to/devilrybuild/buildoutcache/eggs/``.
2. Move the cache to a safe location::

    $ mv /path/to/devilrybuild/buildoutcache/eggs /my/safe/stash/
    $ mkdir /path/to/devilrybuild/buildoutcache/eggs

Make sure to check that ``buildoutcache/eggs/`` is not empty after step 2
(below). If ``eggs/`` is empty, you found the wrong buildoutcache directory,
and you have to repeat steps 1 and 2.

.. note::

    You will probably get a lot of Fortran warnings/errormessages when you run
    buildout in the next step. This is because the numpy library tries to build
    stuff with fortran support. This is not a problem for Devilry - we do not use
    any of the sub-modules that need Fortran.


2 --- Update to v1.3 step 1-3
=============================
Update ``REVISION`` to ``v1.3.1`` using the instructions in the :ref:`update guide <update>`,
**but** stop after step 3 (do not restart supervisord).


3 --- Apply the initial South migrations
========================================
Run the following commands to add the new South database tables, and fake the
migrations to the current database state::

    $ cd /path/to/devilrybuild
    $ bin/django.py syncdb
    $ bin/django.py migrate core 0001 --fake
    $ bin/django.py migrate devilry_qualifiesforexam 0001 --fake
    $ bin/django.py migrate devilry_qualifiesforexam_points 0001 --fake
    $ bin/django.py migrate devilry_qualifiesforexam_approved 0001 --fake

.. note::

    We need to fake the migrations because we did not use South when the
    database was intially created. You can read more about South initial
    `in their docs <http://south.readthedocs.org/en/latest/convertinganapp.html>`_.


4 --- Restart the servers
=========================
Restart the appservers as explained in step 4 in the :ref:`update guide <update>`.
