# Release notes for version 1.1


## Whats new?

### Better default settings
We have made a separate Django app, ``devilry_settings``, which takes care of
default settings, and generators for complex settings like logging.

### Translations
The student interface, and most of the examiner and administrator interfaces
are translated to English and Norwegian Bokmaal. Additionally, we have made a
university dialect.


### New header
The header, which is always visible at the top of the page, has been replaced by a far smaller bar which contains:

- Breadcrumbs
- Authenticated user
- Current role (Student, Examiner and Administrator)

When a user clicks their name or role in the header, a menu with the following info appears:

- see their personal information
    - including a configurable link to click if the info is wrong.
- select their translation
- available roles
    - including a configurable link to click if any roles are missing.
- help-links (see Help links app section below)


### New frontpage
Devilry now has a common frontpage for all roles. Just like in the header, the user can:

- see their roles
- select language
- click a configurable link if they miss any roles
    - This is very visible if they have NO roles.


### New help links application
Superusers can log into the new superuser panel (the Django admin panel), and add/edit help-links to the Help-section of the header of each available role. Each role has:

- title
- description
- url
- roles (checkboxes that can be checked to define who should see the links)


### New user administration panel
Superusers can log into the new superuser panel (the Django admin panel), and:

- Browse and search users
- Edit and view info about users
- Test email sending to individual users

System administrators can configure this user manager:

- Specify exactly what fields should be editable.
- Integrate password-resets with external systems.

See the [README of devilry_useradmin](https://github.com/espenak/devilry-django/blob/master/src/devilry_useradmin/README.rst) for more info.


### Major overhaul of the Student interface
Students now have a completely new:

- Dashboard with clear separation between assignments within and after a deadline.
- Assignment (group) viewer that should make it easier to get a complete overview of an assignment.


### Support for HARD deadlines
Assignments can be configured to use hard deadlines, which means that deliveries can not be made after a deadline has expired.


### Breadcrumbs and browser history everywhere
We now have breadcrumbs on all views, and browser history on 98% of the
interface (only some less-used and soon-to-be-replaced administrator views lack
proper browser history support).



## Migration guide

Perform these steps in the listed order.

### Install fabric
We use Fabric (http://fabfile.org) to simplify common administrative tasks.
Using Fabric makes _building_ Devilry very easy.


### Stop Devilry
Stop any running Devilry-server.


### Backup database
I repeat. BACKUP. YOUR. DATABASE.


### Dump your current database schema

We will use this for database migration later, so take good care of it:

    $ bin/django_production.py sqlall core > ~/old-devilry-database.sql


### Update Devilry
Get the latest version of Devilry:

    $ git pull

You should already be using the ``latest-stable`` branch. If not, check it out with:

    $ git checkout latest-stable

(use ``git branch -v`` to see your branch)


### Refresh all static files and dependencies

    $ fab refresh

OR if you chose not to install Fabric, run:

    $ rm -rf virtualenv
    $ virtualenv virtualenv
    $ virtualenv/bin/python ../bootstrap.py
    $ bin/buildout
    $ bin/django_production.py dev_autogen_extjsmodels
    $ bin/django_production.py devilry_extjs_jsmerge
    $ bin/django_production.py collectstatic --noinput
    $ bin/django_production.py syncdb -v0 --noinput


### Migrate your database
Dump the schema of the new database to a file:

    $ bin/django_production.py sqlall core > ~/new-devilry-database.sql

Then use diff to see changes:

    $ diff ~/old-devilry-database.sql ~/new-devilry-database.sql

We will probably start supporting a database migration tool
([South](http://south.readthedocs.org/)), however for this release you will
have to do it manually.


_NOTE_: We also provide database schemas in releasenotes/db/, however these are
for SQLITE, and may differ slightly from your schema.


### Update your settings
Replace:

    from devilry.defaults.settings import *

at the top of your ``settings.py`` with:

    from devilry_settings.default_settings import *

Replace your ``LOGGING``-config with:

    from devilry_settings.log import create_logging_config
    LOGGING = create_logging_config(
                                    # Send error log messages to ADMINS on email?
                                    mail_admins=True,

                                    # Log to file? Logs are placed in the directory
                                    # configured by log_to_file_dir
                                    log_to_file=True,
                                    log_to_file_dir=logdir,

                                    # Log to stderr?
                                    log_to_stderr=False,

                                    # Set this to WARN to only log very dangerous
                                    # actions, to INFO to log any dangerous action,
                                    # or to ERROR to only log errors.
                                    dangerous_actions_loglevel='INFO'
                                   )

(note that ``logdir`` is still used, so dont remove it)

Remove the following settings:

    MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES = MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES + [
        'devilry.utils.logexceptionsmiddleware.TracebackLoggingMiddleware',
        #'devilry.utils.profile.ProfilerMiddleware' # Enable profiling. Just add ?prof=yes to any url to see a profile report
    ]

Remove any ``DEVILRY_*_NO_PERMISSION_MSG``.


### Set university dialect in your settings (optional)

Add the following to your ``settings.py`` to use university flavoured translations:

    INSTALLED_APPS += ['devilry_university_translations']
    DEVILRY_JAVASCRIPT_LOCALE_OVERRIDE_APPS = ('devilry_university_translations',)


### Choose default deadline handling method
If you want HARD deadlines to be the default, add the following to ``settings.py``:

    DEFAULT_DEADLINE_HANDLING_METHOD = 1

This will only affect the default choice when creating new assignments.


### Start using Gunicorn (optional)
We regulary test Devilry using Gunicorn. Gunicorn is a stable, high-performance
WSGI server written in Python. It has excellent Django support, it is very
portable and you already have it installed since it is a dependency of Devilry.
Use:

    $ bin/django_production.py run_gunicorn -w 4 127.0.0.1:9000

To run Gunicorn in the foreground (for debugging) on port 9000 with 4 worker threads. Use

    $ bin/django_production.py run_gunicorn -w 4 127.0.0.1:9000 --daemon --pid=/path/to/pidfile

To daemonize with a pidfile. Configure your webserver (apache, nginx, ...) just
like your would for any other WSGI application proxy.

**NOTE**: Devilry should be able to run on any Django compatible setup, however
you will have less surprises if you use the same setup as we do.




## Post update migrations

### Set missing roles and wrong userinfo URLs

When users lack roles, or their userinfo is wrong, they click on a link in the
header or on the frontpage. These URLs are configured in ``settings.py`` like
so:

     DEVILRY_LACKING_PERMISSIONS_URL = 'http://devilry.example.com/lackingperms.html'
     DEVILRY_WRONG_USERINFO_URL = 'http://devilry.example.com/wronguserinfo.html'


### Set help-links
Login as a superuser and choose your role on the frontpage to go to the admin-panel where you can edit help-links.

You should probably add links to the
[wiki](https://github.com/devilry/devilry-django/wiki).

You should also add a page for local support contact info. Something like:

    title: I need help with Devilry
    description: And I have already tried the Devilry Wiki.
    url: http://support.example.com

AND:

    title: Bugs or improvement suggestions?
    description: Report your suggestions or bugs directly to the Devilry project.
    url: https://github.com/devilry/devilry-django/wiki/How-to-report-issues-or-suggest-improvements
