not_for_deploy/docs/user/index.rst, before:

==========================
Devilry user documentation
==========================


Getting started
---------------
We recommend that you start with a quick look at :ref:`commonconcepts`.
This avoids confusion with a few special terms that Devilry uses to allow
it to be used in many different settings. When you have skimmed over the concepts,
you can continue with the other Topic guides below.


Common for all roles
--------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   commonconcepts
   email
   changelog_overview


Student
-------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   student
   student_groups


Examiner/Corrector
------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   examiner


Subject/Course administrator
----------------------------
.. note::
    For users managing one or more courses.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   subjectadmin
   subjectadmindeadlines
   subjectadmin_groups
   subjectadmin_examiner
   subjectadmin_qualifiesforexam


Node/Department admin
---------------------
.. note::
    For users managing a Node containing multiple courses.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   nodeadmin
   nodeadmin-finditems
   nodeadmin_qualifiesforexam

Commit message:

Add new minimal user documentation

not_for_deploy/docs/user/index.rst, after:

==========================
Devilry user documentation
==========================


Getting started
---------------
We recommend that you start with a quick look at :ref:`user_commonconcepts` .
This avoids confusion with a few special terms that Devilry uses to allow
it to be used in many different settings. When you have skimmed over the concepts,
you can continue with the other Topic guides below.


Common for all roles
--------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   commonconcepts
   user_role_overview
   changelog_overview


Student
-------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   student/student
   student/student_dashboard


Examiner/Corrector
------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   examiner/examiner


Subject/Course administrator
----------------------------
.. note::
    For users managing one or more courses

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   admin/subjectadmin


Department admin
----------------
.. note::
    For users managing all courses for a department. NOT STARTED.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
