not_for_deploy/docs/user/student_groups.rst, before:

###########################################################
How to create project groups (collaborate on an assignment)
###########################################################

************
How it works
************
Project groups are created on a per assignment basis. Features:

- Any member of the group can make deliveries on behalf of the group.
- Any feedback given to the project group is for all group members. If you are
  supposed to get individual feedback, you should not be in a project group.
- When you join a group, you get any deliveries and feedback made by the group
  before joining, and they get any deliveries and feedback you may have had when
  joining the group.
- When you leave a group, you do not loose any deliveries and feedback. You even
  keep deliveries and feedback made before you joined the group.


****************************************
Invite other students to join your group
****************************************
If your course administrator have enabled collaboration, you can invite other
students to join your group as follows:

1. Log in to Devilry.
2. Select the *Student* role on the frontpage.
3. Select *Active semester* in the *Navigate* section at the bottom of the page.
4. Select the assignment.
5. You should have a *Group members* section in the top of the left hand column
   with the current group members, and an *Invite students to the group* link.
   Click the link.
6. Use the wizard to send an invite. Other students will get their invite via
   email, and they can accept or decline the invite. You can delete an unanswered
   invite.

.. warning::

    All students you invite to your group will given all current deliveries and
    feedback, even deliveries and feedbacks made before they joined
    the group. If they leave the group, they will keep all deliveries and
    feedback you have received on the assignment, even feedback and deliveries
    made before they joined the group.

.. note::

    Refer your course administrator to :ref:`subjectadmin_groups` if you think
    they should enable collaboration.



*****************************
Leave a group / kick a member
*****************************
You need to ask a course administrator if you want to leave a group or kick a
group member. Leaving a group or kicking a member is perfectly safe. Any member
leaving a group is simply moved into a complete copy of the group including all
deliveries and feedback. The only difference is that the original group gets one
less member, and the new group will only have one member.

Commit message:

Changed the Devilry "how to from project groups" doc

not_for_deploy/docs/user/student_groups.rst, after:

###########################################################
How to create project groups (collaborate on an assignment)
###########################################################

************
How it works
************
Project groups are created on a per assignment basis. Features:

- Any member of the group can make deliveries on behalf of the group.
- Any feedback given to the project group is for all group members. If you are
  supposed to get individual feedback, you should not be in a project group.
- When you join a group, you get any deliveries and feedback made by the group
  before joining, and they get any deliveries and feedback you may have had when
  joining the group.
- When you leave a group, you do not loose any deliveries and feedback. You even
  keep deliveries and feedback made before you joined the group.


****************************************
Invite other students to join your group
****************************************
If your course administrator have enabled collaboration, you can invite other
students to join your group as follows:

1. Log in to Devilry.
2. Select the *Student* role on the frontpage.
3. Select the assignment.
4. Select *Project group* in the list on the left.
5. It will say *Invite someone to join your group?* at the top of the page. Under you
   can select the student you want to invite to your group, and send an invite. Other
   students will get their invite via email, and they can accept or decline the invite.
   You can delete an unanswered invite.
   If any, your group members will be in the list *Project group members* at the bottom
   of the page.   

.. warning::

    All students you invite to your group will given all current deliveries and
    feedback, even deliveries and feedbacks made before they joined
    the group. If they leave the group, they will keep all deliveries and
    feedback you have received on the assignment, even feedback and deliveries
    made before they joined the group.

.. note::

    Refer your course administrator to :ref:`subjectadmin_groups` if you think
    they should enable collaboration.



*****************************
Leave a group / kick a member
*****************************
You need to ask a course administrator if you want to leave a group or kick a
group member. Leaving a group or kicking a member is perfectly safe. Any member
leaving a group is simply moved into a complete copy of the group including all
deliveries and feedback. The only difference is that the original group gets one
less member, and the new group will only have one member.
