not_for_deploy/docs/user/subjectadmin.rst, before:

.. _role_subjectadmin:

=====================================
Introduction to the Subjectadmin role
=====================================

.. note:: Please read, or at least take a quick look at, the :ref:`commonconcepts` before reading this guide.


Who this guide is for
#####################
A subject is, as explained in the common concepts guide, typically a course.
This means that this guide is for administrators managing a course or a period
(semester) within a course. If you have *yellow* background color in your
header, you are using the user interface for the Subjectadmin role.


The responibilities of a Subjectadmin
#####################################
A Subjectadmin manage one or more :ref:`subject`, and/or :ref:`period`. They set up
assignments, organize students into :ref:`Groups <group_candidate_student>`, and
assignment :ref:`Examiners <examiner>` to give feedback to students.


Commmon tasks
##########################

.. _findsubjectadminfrontpage:

Finding the Subjectadmin frontpage
==================================
The Subjectadmin frontpage is the page that you navigate to when you select the
Subject administrator role (may be something like *Course administrator* in your
local dialect), from the Devilry frontpage.


Create an assignment
===========================
We provide an interractive guide to help you create assignments. Simply go to
the Subjectadmin frontpage (see :ref:`findsubjectadminfrontpage`), and select
the guide on the right hand side.


Get an overview over all your students
======================================
Select an active :ref:`period` from the Subjectadmin frontpage (see
:ref:`findsubjectadminfrontpage`), or an old/expired :ref:`period` via
the link further down on the frontpage.

Under the *Edit and view related information* heading, you will find links to
your *Students*, and a link to an *Overview of all results*. You can export
(download) the overview as MS Excel, CSV, and a couple of other formats. The
export-links is in the toolbar right below the page heading.

Commit message:

docs.user: Updated for the change from Period to Term.
See #702.

not_for_deploy/docs/user/subjectadmin.rst, after:

.. _role_subjectadmin:

=====================================
Introduction to the Subjectadmin role
=====================================

.. note:: Please read, or at least take a quick look at, the :ref:`commonconcepts` before reading this guide.


Who this guide is for
#####################
A subject is, as explained in the common concepts guide, typically a course.
This means that this guide is for administrators managing a course or a term
(semester) within a course. If you have *orange* background color in your
header, you are using the user interface for the Subjectadmin role.


The responibilities of a Subjectadmin
#####################################
A Subjectadmin manage one or more :ref:`subject`, and/or :ref:`term`. They set up
assignments, organize students into :ref:`Groups <group_candidate_student>`, and
assignment :ref:`Examiners <examiner>` to give feedback to students.


Commmon tasks
#############

.. _findsubjectadminfrontpage:

Finding the Subjectadmin frontpage
==================================
The Subjectadmin frontpage is the page that you navigate to when you select the
Subject administrator role (may be something like *Course administrator* in your
local dialect), from the Devilry frontpage.


Create an assignment
====================
We provide an interractive guide to help you create assignments. Simply go to
the Subjectadmin frontpage (see :ref:`findsubjectadminfrontpage`), and select
the guide on the right hand side.


Get an overview over all your students
======================================
Select an active :ref:`term` from the Subjectadmin frontpage (see
:ref:`findsubjectadminfrontpage`), or an old/expired :ref:`term` via
the link further down on the frontpage.

Under the *Edit and view related information* heading, you will find links to
your *Students*, and a link to an *Overview of all results*. You can export
(download) the overview as MS Excel, CSV, and a couple of other formats. The
export-links is in the toolbar right below the page heading.
