docs/i18n.rst, before:

.. _i18n:

============================
Translating Devilry
============================


.. _i18n-gui:

Easy mode --- using the web-interface
#####################################

Translating Devilry using the web-gui is very simple, all you need is to
understand English, and the language you are translating Devilry into.

Finding the translation web-gui
-------------------------------

The translation GUI is available at ``/i18n/translategui`` on any Devilry
instance. So, for example if you have access to Devilry at
http://devilry.ifi.uio.no, you can translate Devilry using
http://devilry.ifi.uio.no/i18n/translategui.

Using the GUI
-------------

If you want to make an entirely new translation, just start adding translations
to the _translation_ column. The original English text is in the _Default_ column.


Saving your changes
-------------------

Save your changes using the _export_ button. This will download the current
translation to you machine.


Load a translation
------------------

If you want to change an existing translation, one you have saved, or one of
the translations provided by Devilry, click the _Load_ button. Paste the contents
of a file you have exported (see previous section), or choose _Load from server_.



.. _i18n-sysadmin:

Add translations to Devilry
###########################

If you have translated Devilry using the GUI as explained in :ref:`i18n-gui`,
you can send your translation file (``devilry-translation.json``), to your
local Devilry administrator, and they can follow the instructions in the rest
of this section.


How translations work
---------------------

Devilry translations 


.. _i18n-geek:

Geek mode --- Edit the translation files
########################################

TODO

Commit message:

apps.i18n: Make the management tools more user friendly.

docs/i18n.rst, after:

.. _i18n:

============================
Translating Devilry
============================


.. _i18n-gui:

Easy mode --- using the web-interface
#####################################

Translating Devilry using the web-gui is very simple, all you need is to
understand English, and the language you are translating Devilry into.

Finding the translation web-gui
-------------------------------

The translation GUI is available at ``/i18n/translategui`` on any Devilry
instance. So, for example if you have access to Devilry at
http://devilry.ifi.uio.no, you can translate Devilry using
http://devilry.ifi.uio.no/i18n/translategui.

Using the GUI
-------------

If you want to make an entirely new translation, just start adding translations
to the _translation_ column. The original English text is in the _Default_ column.


Saving your changes
-------------------

Save your changes using the _export_ button. This will download the current
translation to you machine.


Load a translation
------------------

If you want to change an existing translation, one you have saved, or one of
the translations provided by Devilry, click the _Load_ button. Paste the contents
of a file you have exported (see previous section), or choose _Load from server_.



.. _i18n-sysadmin:

Add translations to Devilry
###########################

If you have translated Devilry using the GUI as explained in :ref:`i18n-gui`,
you can send your translation file (``devilry-translation.json``), to your
local Devilry administrator, and they can follow the instructions in the rest
of this section.


How translations work
---------------------

Devilry is a set of independent Django applications. Each application manage
its own translations. Before translations can be used in production, we merge
translations from all apps into a single file for each language/locale.


Decoupling translations from the GUI
------------------------------------

When you receive a translation created as explained in :ref:`i18n-gui`, you
have to decouple the translation and choose the language name using
the ``devilry_i18n`` command as so::

    $ bin/django_production.py devilry_i18n load <language-code> /path/to/devilry-translation.json

Where ``<language-code>`` is a single word (lower-case english letters, numbers, underscore and dash). Add ``-v2`` to show a
bit of information, such as what files are created.


How do I avoid collisions with builtin translations?
----------------------------------------------------

Your translation files will be prefixed with ``local-``. Translations
with this prefix is never added to Devilry, and is therefore safe from future
collisions with builtin devilry translations. Developers may check out ``--help``
to see how to get rid of the prefix.


.. _i18n-geek:

Geek mode --- Edit the translation files
########################################

TODO
